---
layout: post
title: "Rogue Bit 🕹"
date: 2019-10-31 13:37:05 -0300
comments: true
categories:
  - Games
share: true
published: true
image:
  feature: /assets/images/abstract-4.jpg
---

I have a peculiar taste in video games. I've never been an avid gamer despite owning consoles and
building a gaming PC when I was younger. Nontheless, a few games stuck with me even after years
without playing them. Portal stood out with whole new concept of "FPS" games to me, introducing
"teleport portals" you can shoot with a gun. Kerbal Space Program taught me, not only orbital
mechanics, but also to appreciate astrophysics, our solar system, and endurance when facing problems
that are really hard to solve.

This weekend I came accross [Rogue Bit][1], a fun little game about computers that introduces
concepts of low level programming in a really innovative way. I really admired it because it teaches
while also being really fun.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9I8Vlv9L9VM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br />

<!-- more -->

In the game you are a single bit that suddenly becomes sentient. You're the 7th bit in a byte and
you an move around memory slots by XORing with adjecent bytes. You can't move (XOR) to a byte whose
7th bit is 1 because you'd cease to exist.

While you're moving around, you'll encounter mazes and instructions you can interact with by
changing its bits. When you XOR yourself with other bytes you'll inevitably hack programs, either by
modifing its instructions or their arguments. You'll be able to tell programs to compare data
registers with unexpected memory slots, and even jump the execution to a whole new instruction set.

Although short, the game is really fun and educational. Since you're literally playing, the game forces you to learn
how to think with a programming and hacking mindset, going through troubleshooting and reverse
engineering. If you want to learn about bitwise operations, assembly code and overall low level
programming you should definitely play [Rogue Bit][1]. The game is available on Steam, Nintendo
Switch and for PC and macOS.

I have the feeling this will enter my short list of games that stand out through the years.

[1]: https://roguebit.bigosaur.com/